Well, welcome to the session.
My name's Ian Riitchie.
I've had the opportunity of managing
part of the QuickTime engineering
team this last year,
actually for a number of years.
We decided to... In fact,
some of you were here last year and we
mentioned that we're working on a new
set of Cocoa classes for QuickTime.
We listened to your concerns.
We heard NSMovie and NSMovieView had some
issues you wanted us to take care of.
We said, well,
how are we going to do this?
Because we're QuickTime engineers.
We know QuickTime inside and out.
We didn't know a lot about Cocoa.
So we actually,
the whole team took Cocoa classes and
we met with the Cocoa development team,
Olly Ozer and Andrew Platzer and others.
And a lot of direction from
even executive management on
how to work on these classes.
And we'll explain today
what we've come up with.
You're going to learn about
the new APIs that we offer.
Tim Monroe will come up
and talk about the classes.
We'll show you some sample
code that we worked on.
Like what could you get working on today,
you know, just after a few minutes
you have it on your DVD.
And then we'll go into what if you
had a few days to work with this.
Some things we came up with these
last few days after we finished
working on the seed for your
[Transcript missing]
The old classes, NSMovie, NSMovieView.
When we tried to use these,
just like real fast,
you ran right into Carbon.
You go, "Oh no, I've got to idle a movie?
Well, I don't know about that.
And what's a handle?" You know,
since Mac OS 9,
most people don't know these,
or aren't used to using these
structures and data types.
So, you ran into limitations
that we decided to address.
And of course there were an occasional
bug or two in the old classes.
So you've probably heard Apple explain,
"We're committed to Cocoa.
We want you to use Cocoa.
If you're going to develop
an application on OS X,
use Cocoa." And they mean it.
We develop an application
on both OS X and Windows,
the QuickTime player,
and we are committed to developing the
QuickTime player for OS X in Cocoa.
I'll explain in a minute how we did that.
We developed the QuickTime broadcaster.
A lot of the iApps that you see, iPhoto,
iMovie, other apps we have at Apple,
are using Cocoa.
So we encourage you all to
embrace this technology,
and Apple is committed to
providing access to other parts
of the OS in Cocoa classes.
We looked at it as a
Cocoa programmer would.
We removed all the carbonisms.
So you can get up and get running in
no time with your Cocoa background.
This next, well, where possible,
we adopted the Cocoa model.
There's a few places that we'll tell
you about that we made exceptions.
And we also provided a new palette to
Tim Monroe will go through in
a little bit that will show
you the new functionality.
So on the abstraction, we have to deliver
QuickTime virtually everywhere.
We have
90, 95% of our users are on Windows.
So when you're developing an application,
we said, well, where do we put the code?
Where do we put most of it?
We push it down into
QuickTime as much as possible.
And then above this, we have--
Two layers.
We have an ActiveX layer
and we have a Cocoa layer.
And one of the layers here
today that we're going to
talk about is the Cocoa layer.
That's what we built the player up on,
both for Windows and Mac.
So your application should be
relatively QuickTime agnostic and
just use the classes and be able
to get up and running in no time.
I'd like to introduce now,
I even wrote some of these things down,
one of the Apple premier's
multimedia engineers.
This is all in print.
You can look it up on the internet.
He is the resonant
QuickTime guru in many circles,
an author extraordinaire.
You've seen many of his articles
in Mac Tech and he's also
written the QuickTime Toolkit,
Volume 1 and 2.
I encourage you to run
out and get this book.
Let's bring him up now here.
Tim Monroe, he's also the tech lead
of the QuickTime tool kit.
of the QuickTime Cocoa Kit.
Come on up, Tim.
Thank you, Ian.
What I want to talk about here
is briefly go through the kit,
give you an overview of
what classes are in it,
and then I want to do a real quick
demo that shows how to use the kit,
and then I want to get out
of the way so that the really
fun demos can come forward.
So there are five classes in
the QuickTime for Cocoa kit,
and there are two data structures.
So let me start down toward the
bottom with the data structures,
because we'll need those
when we get to the classes.
We are providing a data structure
called QT time that is going to be our
preferred method for indicating a time
or a duration in a QuickTime movie.
And you can see there's
three fields here,
a time value,
and the time value is interpreted
relative to the time scale,
which is the number of
time units per second.
And finally,
we've added a flags field here,
and this allows us to do some
interesting things like indicate
that a time that we're passing back
to you is not really a valid time
or is perhaps an indefinite time.
This might happen, for instance,
if you ask for the duration
of a streaming movie.
It doesn't really have a duration,
so we might pass you back the
flag that it's indefinite,
and you can see the QT time
is indefinite flag there.
So let's go ahead and start.
So we have a bunch of utilities
for creating QT time structures,
for adding them together,
for comparing them.
We've tried to do everything as much
as possible in the Cocoa flavor.
And there are two predefined QT time
structures that you will be working with,
namely QT zero time,
which is a zero time or duration
with a non-zero time scale,
and then the QT indefinite time,
which has that flag,
that bit set in the flag.
Thank you.
If you take two QT time structures,
try that fast, and put them together,
you have a QT time range.
And that indicates a start time of the
range and the duration of the range.
And once again,
we have a number of utility
functions that you can use
to operate on time ranges.
For instance, QT time in time range will
give you back a Boolean value.
And finally, we have added categories on
the NSCoder class that allow
you to encode or decode QT time
ranges and QT time structs.
So when you archive or unarchive objects,
you can add these items in.
So let's get to the classes now.
The main class you'll want
to work with is QtMovie.
This represents a QtMovie
and movie controller.
We don't see any use in separating
those two items into separate classes.
There are quite a number of ways
to create a QtMovie instance.
I've got some of them listed here.
If you have a movie in a file,
you can give us the file name.
If you have a URL, we'll take that.
If you have a QtData reference,
which I'll talk about in a second,
we can initialize a
QtMovie object from that.
NSData.
Or finally, if you want to put a
QuickTime movie in your nib,
we also have this method, MovieNamed,
which you may recognize as similar
to the ImageNamed method for reading
the movie out of your nib file.
So once you've got a Qt Movie object,
we have a large number of...
methods that you can use to
navigate within the movie
or to get movie attributes.
Let me just talk about the
attributes for a second.
There's a few methods that will give
you a specific attribute directly.
For instance,
the current time method will give
you back a QT time structure,
which represents the current time.
Now we could have defined methods
for all the very many attributes
that you might want to get,
but we haven't done that.
What we will give you is an
NSDictionary that contains key
value pairs of a large number of
keys and the associated values.
If you just want one
particular attribute,
then there is a method,
movieAttributeForKey,
so you can pass a specific key and we'll
give you back the associated value.
So if you have a movie,
you can also get an array
of tracks in that movie.
And finally,
if you need to go underneath the kit,
if there's something
the Qt kit doesn't do,
and you really like working
with those Carbon APIs,
you can get the movie or the
movie controller identifier
and use that in your code.
The next class we're
talking about is QT Track.
As you know,
a QuickTime movie is composed of tracks,
so we will give you back, if you wanted,
a list of tracks of
QT Track objects in the movie.
Now, there's only one way for you to
create a QT Track object yourself,
and that's if you already
have a QuickTime track.
You can initialize a QT Track object
from that existing QuickTime track.
The way that you get and set track
attributes is exactly parallel with the
way that you do it with movie attributes.
Finally, you can get the media object
that's associated with the track.
And also, in the case that you need to
go underneath the kit and work
directly with the QuickTime track,
you can get that track identifier.
Not much to say about media.
Each QT track has one
media associated with it.
Again, if you want to create a media,
there's only one way to do that,
which is to start with an existing
QuickTime media and call it the
"init with QuickTime media" method.
Media attributes work just the same
way as movie and track attributes.
You can get the track
associated with the media.
And finally,
if you need to go underneath the kit,
you can get the media identifier.
There's a Qt data reference class,
which I don't want to say much about
because we'll talk about it a bit later.
But the standard way of talking about,
of referring to data in a
movie is with a data reference.
So we'll talk more about this later.
And finally,
the view object that we'll be
working with is QtMovieView.
It's a subclass of NSView that
is associated with a
particular Qt movie object.
I've listed some of the attributes
that you can get and set.
We'll look at this more in a second
when we get to Interface Builder.
And finally,
there's a large number of IB actions
that you can wire up to menus
or buttons in your interface.
So that's really the kit.
They have asked us to mention a few
issues that you will run into if
you start working with the version
of the kit that's on your DVD.
And I've listed three of them here.
There are some cosmetic drawing
issues that you'll run into that
you won't see here today because
we have a fixed version of it.
Currently, you cannot usefully subclass a
Qt movie view and get the event
handling to work just right.
And finally,
I would not recommend trying to
rotate a Qt movie view right now.
So let's go to a demo with this.
And I'm going to show you with six
lines of code just how easy it is to
write a multi-document QuickTime display
and editing application.
So let me launch Xcode here,
and I'm going to ask for a new project,
and I want a new project that is a
Cocoa document-based application.
Let's call this Demo.
Tell me you're crashing.
There we go.
I'm a pessimist.
Let me open the .h file,
and I'm gonna need one
instance variable here.
Actually, first I need to do this.
When I'm using the kit, I need to,
of course,
include QtKit.h.
And then I'm gonna wanna have
one instance variable here.
I want a QtKit.h.
[Transcript missing]
This will work.
So let's save that.
That's all I need to add to my .h file.
Let's go into the .m file and save that.
And so I'm going to be loading
Windows from nib files.
So I want to come down to the
window controller did load nib
method and add a few lines of code.
So in the instance that I'm
loading a movie from a file,
so if...
[Transcript missing]
I want to do something,
and that is to create a Qt movie.
And let's call that movie.
And how am I going to create that?
I'm going to call the
class method QtMovie,
movie from file.
And what file?
Self file name.
And if I get a movie,
I'm just being careful here,
I want to assign that movie to the
movie view which is going to be loaded.
So I will say movie
view set movie to movie.
and I believe I'm done with my code,
so let's save that.
Now I need to set a few
things in my target here.
First thing I want to
do is when I'm building,
oh goodness.
I don't want to do the precompile,
the prefix header,
because that'll take too long.
And finally,
I want to set my document type so that
when the open file dialog comes up,
I can open MOV files.
And that's all I need there.
I could add in other document types here,
but I'll refrain from that.
So let's see if I can build this.
Bill Succeeded, most excellent.
But I'm not quite done yet,
'cause I need to set
up my user interface.
So let me open the document nib.
I'm gonna get rid of that text thing.
And the first thing I wanna
do is resize my window.
You'll notice that I didn't put
any code into my source file that
resizes the window to fit the movie.
So I'm going to set this.
I'm going to set the size of the window
to a known size that will fit my movies.
Okay, and now I want to drag a movie
view object into my window.
Set it down here.
I want to set its size to resize to
fit the movie window when I resize it.
And I'll list a few
attributes on the movie view.
You can see I can show
or hide the controller.
I'll show it.
And I want to make this editable.
And I need to do one last thing.
I need to set up an
outlet for the file owner.
So I'll come in here and add an outlet
and we need to call that movie view.
Now let's come over here and wire it up.
I will control click,
make the connection.
Save that.
And if the demo gods are smiling on me,
I can go ahead and run this.
And demo is running and there is an...
So let's now go over here to the
open file and open a movie file.
Very good, thank you.
One thing you cannot forget to do is
add the QtKit framework to your project.
or it won't run,
so we're going to go to system library.
Frameworks.
Look down here for the Qt Kit framework.
Add that to our project.
Yes, now let's build and run.
And now things are working fine.
So I can open, let's open that one that
I tried to open before.
Movie from File.
Ah, thank you.
It's not Movie from File.
You'd think I'd know this stuff now.
It's Movie with File.
Okay.
Now that we've got that,
let's go ahead and start the session.
Let's try running this.
Oh, I'm still running it there.
There we go.
Now this should work.
Let's cross our fingers.
Open that.
Bingo, we've got it.
This is actually a Flash file.
One thing let me show you real quickly.
In the keynote on Monday,
I showed you that there's a
contextual menu for movies.
And if I control click in this,
this is a Flash movie,
I actually get items here
that are relevant to Flash.
So I can zoom in, zoom out, and so forth.
All right, let me very briefly
show you one more thing.
And this is to show you that
the kit provides you a large
number of behaviors for free.
Okay, so I've opened three movies here.
I have two VR panoramas.
And let me line this up just right.
So this is Donner Lake in the winter
and Donner Lake in the summer.
And that's exciting.
So let me try opening that again.
So something is missing here.
What I had was a wired sprite
movie that sent messages to the
two panoramas to tell them to pan.
So I can't do that here because
the movie isn't opening correctly.
But that illustrated one thing
that you get for free with the kit,
which is automatic
intermovie communication.
So with that, bumbling through,
let me bring up Tom Maremaa,
and he will discuss what you can do,
hopefully with more success,
if you've got an afternoon
to play with the kit.
All right, Tim.
Where is the clicker?
Is this it?
Tom Maremaa, I write technical
documentation for Apple.
I've been working with the
QuickTime team for the last seven
years and this is just awesome stuff.
I decided to see what I could
cook up with the framework
basically in an afternoon.
Whoops, that was too fast.
How about going back here?
And I wanted to basically build a little
QuickTime kit media player app in Tiger,
something that was tasty,
easy to cook up and
wouldn't burn my fingers.
I basically wanted to do
an app that could play,
display QuickTime movies, import/export,
and also do some editing
beyond simple copy and paste.
And this would involve maybe a
couple hundred lines of code.
So what did I need?
Well, first of all, Tiger cookbooks.
Yes, we have some Tiger cookbooks to
work with a QuickTime kit framework.
Second thing is sample code,
which you can download,
which is a piece of cake,
and some basic Cocoa programming.
Third thing, ingredients.
Start with Xcode, obviously.
Make sure Panther or Tiger is installed.
And the key is add QuickTime 6.6.
And then we're going to bake
it up with the new classes.
When completed,
invite friends over to watch and
enjoy my player app doing its thing.
Finally, all the documentation,
the reference,
and the programming guide is available,
plus the sample code that
I used to build this app.
Notice that
We have not included the 3,300 pages
that are part of the procedural C API.
You won't need that.
Nor will you need the thousands
of other pages that we've written
over the last 10 years documenting
this awesome QuickTime technology.
So, can I go to the demo please?
Whoops, that's going.
Okay.
I'm going to just close.
I think this is Tim's stuff.
This is my QtKit player
app and as you can see,
I have added my QtKit framework,
which is what Tim was showing.
This is basically an app that was
cooked up in a couple of days.
And what I want to show you is just
a few features that are unique to it.
I also use the QtKit
[Transcript missing]
I'm going to do is show you what you can
do as far as adding some of the actions.
As you can see,
I have specified my fill color as blue.
I'm showing my controller and I'm not
going to be showing the editing part yet.
Let me just go back to this and I want
to show you what I've wired up here.
Hey, this is the cool stuff
that comes with the kit.
As you can see, I can add,
add scale in addition to the cut,
copy and delete.
I can specify my actions
to go to the beginning,
to the end.
I can replace, I can start backward,
et cetera.
Then from here,
let me just pop open real quickly.
Thank you.
and the rest of the team.
So, I'm going to show you how
to use the main menu nib.
I don't know if you guys can see this
is getting a little bit crowded here.
I should probably -- and here I've added
importing plus an export view object.
I've added some of my other menu items
in my edit menu and also in my movie.
Let me just close this down a little bit.
I don't want to save anything.
Let's see if I can save anything.
Now, here's the good stuff.
In my declarations,
they're all very straightforward.
I think this is standard Cocoa stuff.
You can see what we're doing
as far as the class methods,
the inits, some of the setters.
This is probably the most
commonly used of our methods.
In the QT kit and down here,
here are all of our IB actions.
Things get a little bit more
complicated in the implementation file.
This puppy is somewhat longer.
As you can see here,
I have a pound defined that specifies
the width of my movie at 320.
This is primarily to
open up audio movies.
And this sample code is all
available for download and it's
all documented block by block.
The interesting parts, I think,
have to do with,
and I think Kevin Calhoum will
talk a little bit more about some
of the issues involving sizing.
And here we're opening up our document
with the contents of the file.
And this is partly where we're going
to be doing some of our importing.
The beauty of working with the Qt kit,
I think, is that it doesn't take a lot of
code and it really dances for you.
So I'm going to just quickly
build and run this puppy.
And there's my QtKit player app.
As you can see, this is the default.
Now, here's where it gets a
little bit interesting.
I can basically import
and I have control.
I wonder if we get some sound.
Do we have sound?
We don't have sound on this machine?
Okay, the next item that I want to import
for you guys is my MPEG-4 file.
Now here we've got...
We've got some control
over movie playback.
Hopefully you don't have to
cook with cockroaches like that.
And guess what we've added?
We have the capability,
which I don't have time to demo now,
of additional editing functions.
Add, add scale, replace and trim.
We can toggle the controller.
And if we want we can even clone it.
There we are.
Okay, things get pretty hot.
We can even import JPEGs, still images.
And my favorite import item,
being a guy who does documentation,
I decided to actually import
a PDF of the documentation,
which for you guys,
it has a scroller down here,
for if you guys can read
it 30 frames a second,
there you are.
Okay.
Happy cooking.
So the document is available
that you just saw now.
Since you read it so quickly,
you don't need to pick
it up off of your seat.
But for others at the conference,
you might point out to them
that the QuickTime Kit Reference
for Objective-C and the
QuickTime Kit Programming
Guide are available.
Hi, I'm Kevin Calhoun.
I'm still a software
engineer at Apple Computer.
And I'm going to talk to you about some
more advanced scenarios once you get
involved programming with the QT kit.
You are going to have needs that
go beyond the things that you can
do in a morning or an afternoon.
You might have to work into the evening.
These are the nighttime topics.
Let me go through them
one at a time for you.
As Tom mentioned,
there will be some code that's
necessary if you want when
your Windows nib is loaded,
if you want to size a view or
size the entire window to fit
the natural size of a movie.
But we've made this easy for you.
It's possible by means of one of the
methods that Tim mentioned earlier,
the QtMovie attribute method,
to find out what the natural
size of the movie is.
Then you can use that size
to set the size of your view
or your window accordingly.
You can check whether the
movie is displaying the movie
controller and add in the size
of the movie controller if it is.
and that code, in fact code that looks
exactly like this,
is in Tom's sample application
which we have distributed to you.
So you can see it in action.
Tom's application,
you call that the QtKit player,
is capable of opening any
of the media formats that
QuickTime is capable of opening.
And it does this merely by
calling the method QtMovie,
movie with file.
That's all you have to do.
And you can open MPEG-4,
all the still image formats
that QuickTime supports,
AVI, a whole range of formats,
even QuickTime movie files.
But you might want to tell NSPanel or
NSOpenPanel when you bring it up that
you want it actually to make all of
those different file types selectable.
There are two ways to do that.
This is one of them here.
You can use the class method on Qt movie,
canInitWithFile,
in order to determine whether a file
should be selectable in NSOpenPanel.
You do it just like this.
You set yourself as a delegate
for the panel and you handle
the method "panel should show
file name" and you can respond,
"Should I show this file?"
by calling canInitWithFile.
The other thing that you can do is
you can actually get from Qt movie,
there's a class method that will
return an array of all of the
file types that QuickTime can open
if that's what you need to do.
It's really a tradeoff.
If you have a small number of files,
you might want to pass them
for a filter like this.
If you have a wide range of file types,
it might be more efficient for you
actually to get that whole array.
Okay, other topics.
We showed you opening movies from files.
We mentioned that you can
open movies from URLs.
Well, what happens if you have media data
stored in an instance of NSData?
I've got NSData sitting around and I've
got AVI in it or I've got MPEG-4 in it.
I want to make a Qt movie out of that.
Well, that's very, very easy.
There's a class method on Qt movie,
movie with data,
but I wanted to show you just
a little under the hood what
that method actually does.
It initializes, well,
it creates an instance of Qt data
reference that essentially refers
to your NSData as the source of
the media that the movie will
be able to play and manipulate.
When you do this,
it's very handy if you give
QuickTime a clue about the format of
the data in your instance of NSData.
There are two forms of clue
that we're able to read.
One is a file name with a path extension.
If it ends in .mov or .mov,
that's a good clue about the format
of the data that's in the NSData.
Or you can give us a MIME type,
and that will help us determine how
to import that data in your NSData.
Then you can manipulate media data
in instances of NSData using the
very same methods that you saw
demonstrated in use with files.
Okay,
that's media data coming into the kit.
What about going out?
You have a lot of options for storing
your movies in files and for re-encoding
your movies into other forms of media.
Option one,
you can simply write your movie
out to a QuickTime movie file.
A file which only stores a
reference to the media data
which is stored externally.
That's easily accomplished via
the Qt Movie instance method,
write to file with attributes.
The second option is perhaps you want to
save your movie after you've performed
all the manipulations on it that you want
to perform out to a QuickTime movie file,
but you want to store a complete copy of
all the media that that movie requires.
That's easily accomplished by
means of the Qt movie method
write to file with attributes.
I've achieved a theme for my talk.
I'm satisfied.
I can move on.
But in this case,
you have to put in that NSDictionary that
you pass for with attributes some
information that tells the Qt
kit that you want to flatten.
You want to copy all the media
data to the output movie file.
So that's what this code accomplishes.
Of course,
if what you want to do is to store
your model by means of NS Archiver,
you can use that with Qt
Movie instances as well.
You can archive the movie as part
of your whole object hierarchy.
Finally,
the last option is you can just get in
an instance of NSData the serialized,
freeze-dried form of a
QuickTime movie using the method
movie format representation.
Once you have that,
you can store it anywhere you like.
In instance of NSData,
which you can write to a file or
do whatever you need to do with it.
[Transcript missing]
We have a left-handed demo machine today.
And I wrote a very simple application
that really does one thing only.
It manages a list of export settings.
and it saves them to a P-list of
exactly the form that I mentioned
in that code snippet here.
This is a very simple Cocoa app.
All that it does is show you an
array of export settings such as
high quality or digital video.
And for each of these presets that
I want to use in my application,
I can edit those export presets.
Let's see, I want high quality to
use the video compressor.
Oh, let's see, what do I want to use?
What do you want to use, Michael?
Pixlet.
And I want that to be high quality.
And I like 30 frames per second.
And I want my sound to be stored as
Apple Lossless at 48 kilohertz,
because I know that's the audio format
that I'm going to be working with.
And I'm not interested in preparing
for internet streaming because I'm just
using this in my production pipeline.
But if I'm delivering to CD-ROM,
perhaps I want a
different set of settings.
I may want to encode my video
to MPEG-4 with medium quality,
and I want my audio in this
particular case to go to MPEG-4 audio.
AAC.
Looks good.
And so all I'm doing in this application
is editing and saving these presets.
I set my high quality to be Apple Pixlet
video and Apple lossless audio,
and I set my CD-ROM preset to be
MPEG-4 video and MPEG-4 audio.
Now I can save
This collection of presets to a document.
I'm going to say these are my
export settings and I'm going to
store them out on the desktop.
And what I actually save in
this application is a plist.
And inside of that plist,
which has the file type,
if only you could see the file type,
.export settings.
It's a simple plist that contains
those export settings that I can
load in my application later on
and apply to an export operation.
This is sample code that
we'll distribute to you.
If you want to implement
something for example like iMovie.
If I can come back over to slides please.
If you have something like iMovie that
has a panel that says export to Web,
export to CD-ROM,
this is exactly how you can implement
that in your own applications.
Finally, my last scenario of interest.
When you're dealing with media,
the interesting thing about media is
that it can come from any places and
have a variety of characteristics.
One characteristic is
that it can be slow.
It can be coming from remotely over
a network or it can be a media format
that QuickTime supports that might
take us a while to scan in order to
apply all these great features for it.
For example, if it's primarily a
streaming application,
it can be a very slow-paced application.
If it's a streaming application,
If it's a streaming format but
you want to do editing on it,
QuickTime might have to do a little
bit of work to prepare it for that.
What you need to do in your
applications is to check the load
state of Qt movies to determine
whether or not they're ready for the
operation that you want to perform.
Check to see if the load state
is complete before you perform
editing or saving operations.
We're making this easy for you by
giving you the movie attribute,
the Qt movie load state
that you can check for this.
Our own operations, for example,
are going to be a little
bit more complicated.
For example, if you call write to file
with attributes to do export,
we'll do the checking for you,
but it's something to be aware of.
Those are my higher-level
scenarios of interests.
I'm going to turn the stage over to
Adrian Baerlacher who's going to show you
some of the cool things that he built.
I'm not sure if he did it in
the middle of the night or when,
but he'll tell you.
So can we switch to the demo machine,
please?
I'm going to show a couple of very
simple demos using QtKit in Tiger.
So the first demo I have
is a movie screensaver.
So Tiger OS X has a screensaver framework
for writing your own screensavers.
And you basically just
return a screensaver view.
So in this case,
we want to use a Qt movie view.
So programmatically,
we can create a Qt movie view and add
it as a subview to our screensaver view.
And in this case,
we set some attributes of the view, too,
to hide the controller and
preserve the aspect ratio.
So this is only about
200 lines of code or so.
Most of this actually involves setting
up a configuration sheet in this case.
The only other thing I wanted
to show here was the,
oh yeah, so we also,
we observe a notification.
There's about 16 different
notifications on Qt movie.
And in this case,
we observed the Qt movie
did end notification.
So that we can know when the movie
finishes and go on to the next one.
So most of these notifications
are useful if you want to
customize your user interface.
So as you see here,
we have a little preview
like other screensavers.
And this is just picking up
movies from the movies folder.
And we can select which ones we want to
put in here and loop them or mute them.
And we can, of course, test.
This would go on to the next
movie once this one would finish.
So it's a really simple example.
The other example I have
here is of a movie plug-in.
New in Safari, sorry, in Tiger,
WebKit has exposed the Cocoa plugin API.
And it's actually very easy to
write your own plugins for WebKit.
And so there's a method you provide,
a class method plugin
view with arguments.
And we get a dictionary.
This is just a dictionary
of the attributes you get
from the embed tag in HTML.
And so I use those to initialize our Qt
movie view subclass plugin movie view.
And also create the movie
and set that on the view.
And so our subclass in this case,
Also, so this is the plugin.
So in this case, we return self,
the plugin movie view itself for
the object for the WebScript object.
So it's also very easy to
add JavaScript support.
And you just need to
implement these two methods,
isSelectorExcluded from WebScript and
WebScriptNameForSelector.
And this is just mapping
the Cocoa selectors to the
JavaScript function names themselves.
And you can see I have like play, stop,
stepping, and go to end, and full screen.
And most of these just
map to Qt movie view,
so I can just call super for these,
except for full screen.
But it's actually very easy
to do full screen in Cocoa.
I mean, we can just create a window,
set the level to around
screensaver level,
set the background color,
and add our Qt movie view to the screen.
And we can also do a little
bit of a window content view.
So let's just run this.
So, not the greatest UI,
but all of these buttons,
these are all JavaScript on the plugin.
They're coming for me.
and we can step and I'm sure
you can think of much more
interesting things to do.
So these are just a couple of very simple
examples of what you can do using QtKit.
I'm sure you guys can come up
with much more interesting things.
Thanks.
We're here.
Well, you've seen a few of the things
we've done recently with the
Cocoa classes and QuickTime.
You've been to some of the
other QuickTime sessions,
I hope, and if not,
a lot of new exciting technology is
in this next version of QuickTime.
And the Cocoa developers
that embrace the kit,
the QuickTime kit,
will get a lot of these
technologies for free.
We're going to continue to
develop the classes going forward,
and there's a lot of functionality
now that's in the kit today.
So adopt them, put them in your app,
and we'll do the hard work
and the heavy lifting for you.
You have the rest of the
QuickTime team behind you.
Okay, thanks for coming.
That's our show.
Oh, wait.
One more thing.
There is one man that is more responsible
for what we've accomplished here.
The instigator, I guess.
The man behind the throne.
And also our number one QA person,
because from early days,
he was encouraging the QuickTime team
and Apple to get behind the Cocoa effort
and has adopted the kit from early on
and helped with the design and guideline.
So we're very proud to have him here,
and you're in for a treat.
It's Dr.
Michael Johnson of Pixar.
Let's bring him up.
Thank you, Ian.
That was way too nice.
Now I owe him money again.
Well, yeah, so just to start off,
I'm in a group called MPG.
Every year I come,
I'm in a different group,
so eventually they're
going to get rid of me,
but they haven't yet.
So people were asking me what MPG was.
It's actually the Moving Pictures group,
but, you know, the various jokes are
your mileage may vary.
We move the pictures
so you don't have to.
There's no experts here,
or the expert is silent.
And other people at Pixar think
of us as the media pipeline group,
and really we're the people who
are responsible for a chunk of,
in the Studio Tools group, the apps,
technology, and workflow for kind of what
I think of as film development.
And that's really...
We're a big kind of development at sort
of trying to come up with the movie,
the story department,
the editorial department,
the layout departments.
And these are the groups that really deal
with the film as a large-scale entity.
And a lot of the other groups at
Pixar and the production pipeline
are dealing with a shot or a model.
And so we actually deal
with sort of larger chunks.
And so one app that some of you may have
seen that we wrote back about three years
ago is this thing called Pitch Doctor,
which we use in the story department.
And another one,
which some of you have also seen,
is this thing we call Review Sketch,
which lets our directors actually
draw on top of any of the footage that
they're seeing in the screening rooms.
And for the last year or so,
we've been working on this
thing we were calling the,
or still are calling,
the Film Online Kit.
And it's a... It really would
not have been possible without
this effort by all these amazing
engineers in the QuickTime group.
And it was something that I wanted
to do because a couple years ago,
my view of QuickTime was QuickTime,
it's too big, it's hard, it's crufty,
and it's fragile in the sense
that I had to know to call this
and then that and then have this
thing initialized or whatever.
And, you know,
QuickTime's APIs... They make me tired.
And if you're a Cocoa programmer,
and actually that's... So let's
take a little survey here.
How many of you would consider yourself
Cocoa programmers who want to learn
something about QuickTime today?
Interesting.
How many of you would
consider yourselves,
you know,
kind of QuickTime people or sort of old
school Carbon people and you're trying
to learn more about Cocoa this time?
Okay.
Yeah, it's about the mix I figured.
So, but see, that's the thing.
It's like for those of you, you know,
the second group there, I really, really,
really,
really want what QuickTime can do for me.
Like, you know,
I don't want to do this stuff myself.
And, you know, because my group at Pixar,
you know, we're a pretty small group,
relatively speaking,
and we're all about leverage.
And QuickTime is all about leverage.
And so, I had an idea.
*sigh*
[Transcript missing]
Some other things to think about,
and I'm going to give you
a bunch of demos here,
but I want to kind of put a bunch
of ideas in your head when you
get your hands on this stuff.
One of the cool ones is we worked with
the Final Cut folks to come up with,
I mean, they did all the heavy lifting.
We gave them one good
idea on this XMAML format.
I've got the URL here.
I went and checked that last night to
make sure that was the live link there.
And it's a great file format.
And what's cool about this is,
especially if you're like me
and you're building things
on top of the QuickTime kit,
and QuickTime is a great file format,
don't get me wrong,
but there's a lot of times you're
going to want stuff to basically
be editable somewhere else,
especially if you're like me and
you own a teeny part of a very large
production pipeline and you need
to have things flow around there.
This XMAML format is
really great for that.
And in our kit, we actually support,
we can read and write it.
And so that means you can sort
of put these things together.
And then you can save them
out and just double click,
open them up in Final Cut,
and it just works.
Another thing that I've been sort
of thinking about as I've been here,
I mean, the command line apps is
a big thing also for us.
And what's cool about the kit is,
so again, I've been trying to learn
QuickTime for years,
okay,
failing miserably for the most part,
until this stuff came along.
And one of the things that sort
of always comes up is people
wanting to make reference movies,
right?
You've got like these five movies
and you'd like to make a movie.
Here's my movies with movies theme again.
But, you know,
and I guess there's this guy,
Peter Hottie, and he wrote this thing
a million years ago.
And people all go and get this.
And, oh, it's over here.
Oh, it runs in Classic.
And, you know, there's some little thing
for doing this stuff.
And I'm sure all the
QuickTime gurus are going,
well, no, Michael, you just do this.
But as far as I could ever tell,
you know,
it was just sort of black magic.
And you can write this in like
three lines now with the kit.
That's just so killer.
You know,
you can basically open up a movie, do,
you know, insert movie of movie into that
movie as you iterate over your movie.
And then save the thing out again.
And now, you know,
you can even transcode it to
a different codec if you want.
Amazing.
And then also I was just thinking
when I went to that Automator talk
the other day about the fact that,
you know, if you think about these things
as little command line apps,
you can imagine doing all sorts of
really neat things with QuickTime movies.
So anyway,
the other thing that you may want to do
is you may want to put whatever stuff
you do on the kit on an IB palette.
And that's what we did.
So we have this idea of what
we call a sequence provider.
And a sequence provider is basically
a model object that is holding on to,
it's basically fronting
for one of these sequences.
It's basically providing that thing for
you through a model controller layer.
And we have a set of formal protocols
that these sequence providers conform to.
So there is the notion of
an FOL sequence providing.
There's an FOL mutable
sequence providing.
An FOL mutable movie sequence providing.
We're way too.
We're way too protocol-y.
And so we've actually
implemented this for two things.
One of them is actually
a very lightweight thing.
You know, think of like iTunes,
except think of it for movies.
And so you'd like to basically
have huge lists of movies,
big cut lists of movies.
But you really don't need to play them.
You know, you're really just kind
of organizing them.
It would be like bringing up iTunes
where you're getting ready for a
party and you know all this music.
You don't need to actually play it.
You just kind of want to rearrange
it and put it in a particular order.
The next one is an
actual hardcore editable,
playable.
Movie sequence.
Something where you can hit space bar
and it's just going to play for you.
And so we implemented these two things
as sort of objects on the palette there.
So with that, let me go to bring up IB.
Everybody has to arrange their
little IB world differently.
Myself included.
Hey, yeah, see?
You're on right, aren't I?
So,
let's just start off with a simple thing.
Oh, document opening error occurred.
Oh, that's good.
We should have rebooted this machine.
All right, we'll make a new one.
See, I tried all my stuff on Panther and
then they put me on a tiger machine.
So the basic idea here is,
here's our little palette here.
We have a whole bunch
of different objects,
a bunch of which you're not
going to get to see today.
Sorry.
So the first thing you want to do is you
want to actually drag out this little
object that has a bunch of movies in it.
And because we are very firm
believers in the sort of iterate
really quick kind of thing,
we actually have,
I can go and I can add and
delete movies to this thing here,
which I will later on this.
But it comes up and it starts up
having just a bunch of movies,
a bunch of little test movies sort
of built in there to provide out.
So the first thing you want to
do is pretty much what everybody
else has been doing here,
which is you drag out
a little movie view.
And in my case, I actually wire it up
to a sequence provider.
So now if I go into test interface mode,
I actually go and build up a little
sequence of those movies there.
And so I just have this simple
little movie that's there.
Now, that's not super interesting.
It's sort of what the
other guys were doing.
And I'm supposed to be the sexy demo,
so I have to do something
better than that.
So one of the things that is really,
really neat about this.
And the thing that they got really
right is the fact that this is very,
and again,
happy that most of you raise your hands
on the Cocoa side of the fence there.
Is that this is, you know,
the QuickTime kit makes it very,
very easy to make very
MVC kinds of things.
And so, you know,
here we have a little table,
which is representing the movie.
And as we're playing this thing here,
you know,
it's sort of showing up that stuff there.
And we can do all this.
I can do all the sorts of
things you would expect.
I can drag and drop these things around.
Now, what's going on here?
I'm editing a movie.
Okay?
I'm editing a movie of movies here.
And it starts to get really
interesting of where it's
actually just updating this stuff.
So we'll put some more.
and David I don't know why
those guys don't want to open.
That's weird.
Anyway,
will go and instead of
having just a table view,
we can use an outline view.
And so you can notice now that when
we get with some of these things,
there were little disclosure
triangles on them.
And that's because these themselves
are movies of movies of movies.
So in our little test
thing that we've got there,
we actually have it set up so
that it's not only just sort
of one level of hierarchy,
but it's two.
And all the sort of stuff that you
would expect to have work works,
you know, you can sort of drag between
them and stuff like that.
And we're doing, you know,
we're doing some heavy lifting there,
but the fundamental QuickTime activity
that's going on there is that
little function that I put up there,
which is basically all I'm doing
is I'm inserting an element.
I've got sort of a companion one of that,
which is basically delete
element from segment.
And these guys really did it right.
It really sort of works the way
you would expect it to work.
And again, we've got with the kit
that we've been working on,
we have a whole sort of
raft of these UI elements.
So let's just go and let's see if we go
and we say let's put that in a tab view.
What did I put in a tab view?
Something's been put in a tab view.
So let's put this guy in a tab view there
and then we can actually go and we have
another view which is a tableau view.
And so if we wire that guy up to, sorry,
I'm dragging the scroll view.
And this guy will go and let's
actually also drag out a little slider.
So we'll do this sort
of iPhoto kind of thing.
So we can see our movie that
we have here as both looking
at it that way or this way.
And again,
sort of all the same kinds of things.
We can go and move these things
around and we can go and...
I should have made it continuous.
That's why you want to use IB.
So now when you go in there
you can try that sort of stuff.
I really want to sort of
take this moment here,
since you're Cocoa folks here,
to evangelize a few things.
I came from the old Next Step world.
That's sort of how I got to Cocoa.
And one thing that used to happen a
lot more in the Next Step world than it
seems to be happening in the Cocoa world
is people would put things on palettes.
And it makes me sad that
I don't see more IB palettes.
And I pushed really hard on the
QuickTime kit guys to get sort of
all their ducks in a row on there.
So in terms of, you know,
all the encoding methods and
things like that are in there
so that you can actually go and
put all this stuff in there,
put it in a nib.
And there's a certain rigor that happens
when you actually go to the trouble
of putting things on an IB palette.
And there's a certain cost up
front in terms of actually making
it so that all your objects know
how to sort of work with it.
And that they're using key coding,
you know, correctly.
And there's some work
you have to do there.
But it's really worth it
because there's nothing like,
you know, taking down another app to know
when you've got bugs in your code.
And the cool thing about IB is, you know,
I'm, you know,
in and out of test interface mode there.
If I'm not releasing everything
correctly or I'm doing some
bad trouncing on things there,
I'm going to pay for it really quickly.
And I much prefer to sort of take
the pain of that kind of stuff
not quite completely up front.
But, you know,
people don't sort of go and
finish things out well enough,
I think.
And it kind of makes me sad.
So I'm hoping people will see, you know,
this thing as a kind of a non-trivial
example that was basically done by,
there's like, you know,
four people that contributed
to the code on this thing here.
So it's not a huge, it wasn't a huge,
huge effort.
But it is something that you want.
Now, take out, again,
sort of there's the obvious
thing then that if you're going
to really start trying to do
production apps with this stuff,
the one thing that I think, you know,
we all know that we need is a timeline.
And so we have a little timeline
view that we can drag out here.
And eventually...
Start up there.
So here we have a little timeline.
And same sort of stuff happens.
You know, you've got selection.
You can see it happening
between them there.
We've got interactive.
We can sort of change the in
and out points on there and
then indicate those things.
And here's sort of a neat thing.
So remember, this is a movie of
movies inside our movie,
right?
So and remember that
that little movie had,
if we look, it had,
it was made up of three and four.
But it's a movie and it
has in and out points.
So theoretically,
we could actually change the in points
of that thing and move it in far enough
that it's sort of representative first
frame is no longer three but four.
And so that's sort of just
proving that I sort of have no,
you know, I'm not lying here.
Another thing that you could do
on this kind of stuff is you can
use sort of non-trivial movies.
So let's actually get into that.
I'm going to get rid of my trivial movies
and show you some non-trivial ones.
So now unfortunately,
when I grabbed these movies,
I grabbed them off the disc farm
and we made them from there.
And so these movies have no sound,
but they are real movies nonetheless.
And so this is some stuff from
a little movie we're working on
this year called The Incredibles.
And so this was from the trailer.
And so this is pretty interesting
because these are the real... Are we...
We're in a bad place right now.
Let me just check this again, sorry.
I'll be for a second here and do
this again because things say they're
being freed in the middle there.
You probably want to start again.
Okay,
so if we drag out a little movie view
here and we drag out a timeline and
then we pull out a sequence provider.
And then we'll go and we'll
edit that sequence provider.
And then we'll go add
those movies in again.
And so the, you know,
what I'm hoping that you're getting
from this is the fact that you can
use this kit to do real things.
You know, these guys have done, you know,
there's still, I think,
I think there's still lots of,
there's lots of QuickTime left that's
not really exposed in the kit right now.
But I think there is an enormous amount
of work that these folks have done.
So here's our little sequence here.
And what's fun with this is that,
you know,
you can even actually edit this thing,
you know, while it's playing.
This is what I mean by it's magic.
I didn't do anything to get that.
You know what I mean?
Like, I'm just, like,
editing the movies of movies there,
and these QuickTime folks are
just making that all work.
And I don't really know, you know,
sort of what they're doing.
And I don't have to know.
That's the point of
doing stuff with Cocoa,
right?
Leverage.
It's all about leverage
and trying to get,
and trying to,
and to leverage what these folks are
doing so you can get back and do sort
of the real work that you want to do.
Is that the time for talk or do we
need to leave time for questions?
for talk.
Okay, good.
Okay, I'll wrap this up here.
So that's, oh,
it's kind of dark up there.
That's too bad.
This is actually a full film
res pixelate playing back there.
And we can also,
there's other things in the kit
that I sort of haven't talked about,
but I can do things,
like we have this notion of
markers that you can drop down
and you can drop markers on
things and snap them to things.
Or we can put a,
I can put like a marker here and
then I can extend that thing out.
And then I can do things like
drawing on top of it there.
And then I can actually go and just play.
And like the drawing there is
actually using a child window.
So there's actually, this is again,
sort of the magic of Cocoa, right?
Is that I've got the child
window stuff over here.
So I did that drawing in a separate
window that's coming in there.
The Qt movie view has no
knowledge of that stuff at all.
The GPU is doing the compositing there.
So I didn't have to like, you know,
draw some sketch track inside of
QuickTime and then hope that QuickTime,
you know,
it was a fast path in QuickTime to
sort of composite that stuff together.
You know, I can sort of have that
little drawing up there.
And this is the kind of stuff that
we do all the time and have it not
cost me anything from QuickTime.
And what's so great about this from,
again, from a Cocoa person's perspective
is that QuickTime's finally sort of,
you know, arrived in, you know,
to my party.
Where, you know,
they were having a great party
over there by themselves.
But now like I get to use them
and I get to make them plug
and play with all the things,
you know,
interface builder and child Windows stuff
and just being able to build a
framework and to be able to sort
of move things around really easily.
And that's just enormous
and sort of what,
you know,
these folks have actually accomplished,
you know, sitting on the shoulders of the
giants of all the QuickTime efforts
for the last ten years.
You know, I just, you know,
I'm the klempt.
It's just really huge.
And so that's all I've got.
Thanks.